# sophibuggg.github.io
Professional Self-Assessment

Completing my coursework throughout the duration of this degree as well as developing the ePortfolio has allowed me to become more than just a novice programmer. When I first started out, I remember getting excited about my first ever Python turtle visual I made on my laptop. Now, I look back fondly and think about how much I have learned since then. I have a solid foundation in my understanding of software development, knowledge in how to navigate coding using several popular languages, and a better way to approach problem solving when it comes to finding technical solutions. I also gained experience in taking abstract concepts and transforming them into tangible projects and ideas. Everything I have learned makes diving into the tech field a more realistic goal. 
Learning about what stakeholders want and need was very interesting to me because I realized how much expectations can vary depending on the industry or type of project. I learned a lot about data structures as well. Hash tables, arrays, and other structures were key concepts I have absorbed. Even my math classes helped immensely when it came to understanding things such as algorithms. Linear algebra was the most incredible math class I have ever taken and wonderfully eye opening to the role of math in computer science. Collaborating in a team environment became a very apparent necessity in software engineering as I realized how much can realistically be done independently and how much you need to rely on teamwork with others. With my software engineering progress, I learned not only about the technical aspects of coding but the social ones as well. There is a lot of order, planning, and even a hierarchy within software engineering teams that are critical to ensuring a smooth process. Databases are a lot of fun and I enjoyed the courses that focused on them. I even installed Postgre SQL on my personal computer to continue my enjoyment of learning how to make my own databases. It’s mind blowing to see how dependent the world is on databases and the connections we have to maintain so that they stay relevant and secure. Security was a major focus for me because I have a fascination with cybersecurity. I love helping people as well so ethical hacking as well as analyzing risks within code became an exciting area for me. 
	I chose to focus on one artifact for all three enhancements and areas. This is because I was very proud of this particular project but also because I felt that it would be the best one to modify and show that I have succeeded in learning quite a bit of technical skills. There was an opportunity for improvement with each category. The artifact I chose was from CS 330 and it was a openGL graphics project where I created a scene of a moonlit garden path. I believe that all of my enhancements have shown I am capable of achieving great things in the field of technology and a computer science/information security related career. 


Code Review:
https://youtu.be/3XyEAf3gT1M - P1 Code Review
https://youtu.be/-AYb9lhIJao - P2 Code Review
